NO.1 A database is configured in ARCHIVELOG mode. A full RMAN backup exists but no control file backup to trace has been taken. A media failure has occurred. In which two scenarios is incomplete recovery required? (Choose two.)
A.	after losing a SYSAUX tablespace data file 
B.	after losing all members of an INACTIVE online redo log group 
C.	after losing all members of the CURRENT online redo log group 
D.	after losing all copies of the control file 
E.	after losing an UNDO tablespace that is in use

NO.3 Which three are true about Optimizer Statistics Advisor? (Choose three.) 

A.	It can be run only manually.
B.	It is part of the DBMS_ADVISOR package. 
C.	It can recommend changes to improve the statistics gathering process. 
D.	It always analyzes all schemas in the database. 
E.	It runs automatically every night by default. 
F.	It is part of the DBMS_STATS package.

NO. 4 Which two are true about automatic block repair? (Choose two.)

A.	Automatic block repair can repair blocks with no standby database if DB_BLOCK_CHECKING = TRUE. 
B.	Real-Time Query must be enabled on a physical standby database for automatic block repair to be done on that physical standby database. 
C.	Real-Time Query must be enabled on a primary database for automatic block repair to be done on any of its physical standby databases. 
D.	It is not possible for media corrupt blocks. 
E.	Real-Time Query must be enabled on a physical standby database for automatic block repair to be done on its primary database.

NO.5 The USERS tablespace consists of data files 3 and 4 and must always be online in read/write mode. Which two are true about using RMAN to perform an open database back up of this tablespace? (Choose two.)

A.	Backups must be done incrementally. 
B.	Backups must be contained in backup sets. 
C.	Backups can be taken only if the database is in ARCHIVELOG mode. 
D.	Backups can be done incrementally. 
E.	The database must be registered in an RMAN catalog. 
F.	Only consistent backups can be created.

NO.6 You are managing this configuration:
1. CDB1 is a container database.
2. PDB1 and PDB2 are two pluggable databases in CDB1.
3. USER1.EMP is a table in PDB1 and USER2.DEPT is a table in PDB2.
CDB1 user SYS executes these commands after connecting successfully to PDB2:
Which two are true? (Choose two.) 
A.	The inserts on USER1.EMP remain uncommitted when the session connected to PDB2. 
B.	The inserts on USER1.EMP were committed when the session inserted a row into USER2.DEPT. 
C.	The insert on USER2.DEPT fails because of the active transaction in the parent container. 
D.	The insert on USER2.DEPT is a recursive autonomous transaction by the child session and is committed. 
E.	The inserts on USER1.EMP were rolled back when the session connected to PDB2.
F.	The insert on USER2.DEPT is uncommitted. 
G.	The inserts on USER1.EMP were committed when the session connected to PDB2.

NO.7 Which three are true in Oracle 19c and later releases? (Choose three.) 
A.	If the password file location changes, then the new location is used automatically by the Oracle Server. 
B.	Schema Only accounts can be granted administrator privileges. 
C.	All the Oracle-supplied accounts are Schema Only accounts. 
D.	Privilege Analysis is included in Oracle Enterprise Edition and no longer requires Database Vault. 
E.	Unified Auditing can be configured to audit only events that are issued indirectly by an audited user. 
F.	Unified Auditing can be configured to audit only events that are issued directly by an audited user.
 
NO.8 Which two are true about creating pluggable databases (PDBs) using snapshots in Oracle 19c and later releases? (Choose two.) 
A.	A PDB snapshot is always a full copy of the source PDB. 
B.	A PDB snapshot is always a sparse copy of the source PDB. 
C.	A snapshot copy PDB depends on a storage snapshot which can only be stored on specific file systems. 
D.	A PDB snapshot depends on a storage snapshot which can be stored on any file system. 
E.	A PDB snapshot depends on a storage snapshot which can only be stored on specific file systems. 
F.	A snapshot copy PDB depends on a storage snapshot which can be stored on any file system. 
G.	A snapshot copy PDB can be created from a stand-alone clone PDB.

NO.9 On the 10th of August, you implement an incremental database backup strategy and configure a recovery window of five days. Level 0 backups are taken on the 10th, 17th, and 24th of August. Differential level 1 incremental backups are taken daily between the level 0 backups. Today is the 26th of August. Which backups will be obsolete? 
A.	all backups prior to 10th of August 
B.	all backups prior to 22nd of August 
C.	all backups prior to 24th of August 
D.	all backups prior to 20th of August 
E.	all backups prior to 17th of August

NO.12 Which two are true about SQL Performance Analyzer (SPA)? (Choose two.) 
A.	It is integrated with the SQL Access Advisor. 
B.	It predicts the impact of system changes on SQL workload response time. 
C.	It provides before and after execution statistics for each SQL statement in the analysis task 
D.	It offers fine-grained analysis of all the SQL statements in the analysis task as a group. 
E.	SQL statements that were originally run concurrently are run concurrently by SPA.

NO.13 Which two are true about diagnosing Oracle Database failure situations using Data Recovery Advisor? (Choose two.) 
A.	Using the Data Recovery Advisor LIST FAILURE command always requires that the database for which failures are to be listed is in MOUNT state. 
B.	A failure can be closed only when it has been repaired. 
C.	Data Recovery Advisor can be used if a database is closed. 
D.	The Data Recovery Advisor CHANGE FAILURE command can be used only to change failure priorities.
E.	Data Recovery Advisor can proactively check for failures.
 
NO.14 Which two are true about creating RMAN backups for an Oracle container database? (Choose two.) 
A.	Tablespaces from different PDBs with identical names must be backed up by connecting RMAN separately to each PDB to back up the tablespaces. 
B.	The BACKUP DATABASE command will create a pluggable database (PDB) backup when RMAN is connected to a PDB. 
C.	SPFILE backups can be created while connected to an application root PDB. 
D.	The BACKUP DATABASE PLUS ARCHIVELOG command will back up archive logs when RMAN is connected to a PDB. 
E.	The BACKUP PLUGGABLE DATABASE command can be used to back up CDB$ROOT.

NO.15 Which three are true In Oracle 19c and later releases? 
A.	Tablespaces always remain in read/write mode during transportable tablespace operations. 
B.	Simultaneous data pump jobs can be limited at the pluggable database (PDB) level. 
C.	Tablespaces never remain in read/write mode during transportable tablespace operations. 
D.	An ordinary data pump export of a table with encrypted columns will always encrypt the same columns when imported. 
E.	A transportable data pump import can leave a plugged-in tablespace in read-only mode. 
F.	A transportable data pump import can leave a plugged-in tablespace in read/write mode.

NO.17 Examine these queries and their output:
After a system crash, an instance restart and an attempted opening of the PDBs result in:
Which two are true? (Choose two.)
A.	Data file 24 can be recovered while PDB2 is opened. 
B.	Data file 24 must be recovered while the CDB is opened. 
C.	Data file 24 can be recovered while CDB$ROOT and PDB$SEED are opened. 
D.	Data file 24 cannot be recovered while the CDB is opened. 
E.	Data file 24 must be recovered while PDB2 is closed.

NO.18 Which two are true about RMAN encryption? (Choose two.) 
A.	RMAN encryption keys are stored in a database keystore. 
B.	RMAN can encrypt the Oracle Database password file. 
C.	Dual-mode encrypted backups can be restored only if both the password and the keystore used for encryption are available. 
D.	The SET ENCRYPTION command overrides encryption settings specified by the CONFIGURE ENCRYPTION command. 
E.	Password encryption can be persistently configured using the CONFIGURE ENCRYPTION command.

NO.20 Which two are true about RMAN duplexed backup sets? (Choose two.) 
A.	A duplexed backup set uses the same number of SBT channels as a non-duplexed backup set for the same number of files. 
B.	A non-duplexed backup set written to disk can be duplexed to disk by backing up the backup set that is already on disk. 
C.	A non-duplexed backup set written to SBT can be duplexed to tape by backing up the backup set that is already on tape. 
D.	A non-duplexed backup set written to disk can be duplexed to tape by backing up the backup set that is already on disk. 
E.	A non-duplexed backup set written to SBT can be duplexed to disk by backing up the backup set that is already on tape. 
F.	A duplexed backup set always uses twice as many SBT channels as a non-duplexed backup set for the same number of files.

NO.22 Which two are true about Rapid Home Provisioning (RHP), which has been available since Oracle 18c? (Choose two.) 
A.	It is an Oracle Database service 
B.	It cannot be used to upgrade Oracle Database homes. 
C.	It can be used to provision applications. 
D.	It can be used to patch Grid Infrastructure homes containing Oracle Restart. 
E.	It can be used to provision middleware.

NO.26 Which three are true about an application seed pluggable database (PDB)? (Choose three.) 
A.	It is automatically synchronized with its application root PDB when an application is upgraded. 
B.	It cannot be added to an application container after the application container has already been created. 
C.	A new application PDB created by cloning an application seed PDB can have an old version of the application installed after cloning completes. 
D.	It is automatically synchronized with its application root PDB when an application is installed. 
E.	It cannot be dropped from its application container. 
F.	A new application PDB created by cloning an application seed PDB can have an up-to-date version of the application installed after cloning completes. 
G.	It is not required in an application container.

NO.27 Which two are true about RMAN backups when using a media manager to write backups to tape when there are only two tape drives? (Choose two.) 
A.	SBT tape compression can be used even if no RMAN compression is configured. 
B.	Any backup set written to the SBT device in this configuration can contain a maximum of two backup pieces. 
C.	Any backup written to the SBT device in this configuration can contain a maximum of two backup sets. 
D.	SBT tape compression and RMAN backup compression should be used in parallel. 
E.	The SBT device should be configured to use PARALLELISM 2 to allow both tape drive to be used simultaneously.

NO.28 You plan to install Oracle Grid Infrastructure for a Standalone Server and Oracle Database for the first time on a server. 
Examine this command and its outcome: 
Which two are true? (Choose two.) 
A.	oracle will be an owner of the Oracle Inventory. 
B.	oracle must be the owner of every Oracle Database installation. 
C.	oracle can own an Oracle Database installation but not an Oracle Grid Infrastructure installation. 
D.	oracle will be granted the SYSASM privilege when installing the Oracle Database software. 
E.	The user account, oracle, and group, oinstall, can be used for all Oracle software installations.

NO.29 Which three are true about opatchauto? (Choose three.) 
A.	It performs a shutdown and then a restart of all processes in both Oracle Grid Infrastructure and Oracle Database home during the patching process. 
B.	It must be invoked by a user with root user privileges. 
C.	Patches are applied via opatchauto. 
D.	Users must always input patch plans to opatchauto.
E.	It requires the Oracle Grid Infrastructure and Oracle Database instances to be shut down before being invoked. 
F.	It applies patches in non rolling mode by default. 
G.	It is used to apply interim patches to Oracle Grid Infrastructure and Oracle Database home combinations.

NO.30 Examine this configuration: 
o	CDB1 is a container database. 
o	PDB1 and PDB2 are pluggable databases inCDB1. 
You execute these commands successfully: 
Which two are true? (Choose two.) 
A.	PDB1 and PDB2 are in MOUNT state. 
B.	Redo logs are opened. 
C.	PDB1 and PDB2 are in READ ONLY state. 
D.	CDB$ROOT is in MOUNT state. 
E.	PDB$SEED is in READ ONLY state.

NO.31 Which two are true about unplugging an application container from a container database and plugging it into a different container database? 
A.	It requires local undo mode in both container databases. 
B.	It requires only local undo mode in the database where the application container will be unplugged. 
C.	Plugging the application root into a different CDB plugs in all its application PDBs. 
D.	Application PDBs in the application container must be unplugged before the application root is unplugged. 
E.	Unplugging the application root from a CDB unplugs all its application PDBs. 
F.	The application root of an application container should be plugged into the other CDB before its application PDBs are plugged in.

NO.33 You have configured RMAN SBT channels to write backups to media. 
You then take an RMAN backup by using this command: 
Which three are true? (Choose three.) 
A.	The restore point is a label for the system change number (SCN) that will be saved two years after the archival backup was taken. 
B.	The data file backups in the self-contained archive backup are not considered obsolete for two years regardless of the retention policy. 
C.	All archive logs created after this backup are kept for two years. 
D.	The SPFILE is included in the self-contained archival backup. 
E.	The control file is included in the self-contained archival backup. 
F.	The restore point is a label for the system change number (SCN) before the archival backup was taken.

NO.35 Which three are true about performing an Oracle Database install on Linux? (Choose three.) 
A.	The runfixup.sh script can install missing RPMs. 
B.	The Oracle Preinstallation RPM must be used to configure the Oracle database installation owner, the Oracle inventory group, and an Oracle administrative privileges group. 
C.	It allows you to select the languages supported by the Oracle database server. 
D.	It can be done before installing Grid Infrastructure for a Standalone Server. 
E.	The Oracle Preinstallation RPM can be used to configure the Oracle database installation owner, the Oracle inventory group, and an Oracle administrative privileges group. 
F.	It can be done after installing Grid Infrastructure for a Standalone Server. 
G.	The Oracle database administrator must be granted access to the root operating system account to run root privileged scripts.

NO.36 Which three are true about transporting databases across platforms using Recovery Manager (RMAN) image copies? (Choose three.) 
A.	By default, the transported database will use Oracle Managed Files (OMF) 
B.	Data files can be converted on the destination system. 
C.	Data files can be converted on the source system. 
D.	A new DBID is automatically created for the transported database. 
E.	Databases can be transported between systems with different endian formats. 
F.	The password file is automatically converted by RMAN.

NO.38 Which two are true about gathering optimizer statistics? (Choose two.) 
A.	Executing DBMS_STATS.GATHER_DATABASE_STATS while connected to CDB$ROOT gathers object statistics in all open PDBs except PDB$SEED. 
B.	Executing DBMS_STATS.GATHER_DATABASE_STATS while connected to a PDB opened in read/write mode gathers object statistics for that PDB. 
C.	Executing DBMS_STATS.GATHER_DATABASE_STATS while connected to CDB$ROOT gathers object statistics only in CDB$ROOT. 
D.	System statistics can be gathered only while connected to CDB$ROOT. 
E.	Executing DBMS_STATS.GATHER_DATABASE_STATS while connected to CDB$ROOT gathers object statistics in all open pluggable databases (PDBs).

NO.39 Which three are true about audit policies in container databases (CDBs)? 
A.	All audit records are written to the audit trail in CDB$ROOT 
B.	A common unified audit policy can be created at the application root level. 
C.	A common unified audit policy can be created at the CDB level. 
D.	An application PDB cannot have a local audit policy. 
E.	Fine-grained auditing policies defined in an application root must be manually synchronized by each application PDB contained in the application root. 
F.	Application-common unified audit policies defined in an application root must be manually synchronized by each application PDB contained in the application root.

NO.40 Which two are true about changing the LOCAL_UNDO_ENABLED property to false in a CDB? (Choose two.) 
A.	After the change, only a common user with the required privilege can create an undo tablespace in CDB&ROOT. 
B.	Any new PDB and existing PDBs are automatically configured to use the default undo tablespace in CDB$ROOT. 
C.	After the change, only one undo tablespace can exist in CDB$ROOT. 
D.	After the change, any user with the required privilege can create an undo tablespace in the PDBs. 
E.	Undo tablespaces existing in PDBs must be dropped before the change. 
F.	After the change, each existing PDB has to be reopened for the new undo mode to take effect.
 
NO.41 Examine this configuration: 
1. CDB1 is a container database running in archivelog mode. 
2. Multiple uncommitted transactions are running in CDB1. 
3. Redo log groups 1 and 2 are inactive. 
4. Redo log group 3 is the current group. 
All members of redo log group 3 are lost before it is archived. 
Examine these possible steps: 
1. SHUTDOWN ABORT 
2. STARTUP NOMOUNT 
3. STARTUP MOUNT 
4. ALTER DATABASE MOUNT 
5. RESTORE DATABASE 
6. RECOVER DATABASE NOREDO 
7. RECOVER DATABASE UNTIL AVAILABLE 
8. RESTORE ARCHIVELOG ALL 
9. ALTER DATABASE OPEN 
10. ALTER DATABASE OPEN RESETLOGS 
Choose the minimum required steps in the correct order to recover the database. 
A.	1, 3, 5, 6, 10 
B.	1, 3, 5, 8, 6, 10 
C.	1, 3, 5, 6, 9 
D.	1, 3, 5, 6, 10 
E.	1, 2, 5, 7, 4, 10 
F.	1, 3, 5, 7, 10

NO.42 Examine this configuration:
o	CDB1 is a container database.
o	COMMON_USER_PREFIX is C##.
o	PDB1 is a pluggable database contained in CDB1.
o	APP1_ROOT is an application container contained in CDB1.
o	APP1_PDB1 is an application PDB contained in APP1_ROOT.
 
You execute these commands successfully: 
Which two are true? (Choose two.) 
A.	APP1_USER1 can be created in PDB1. 
B.	APP1_USER1 can be created in CDB1. 
C.	APP1_USER1 can have different privileges in each application PDB contained in APP1_ROOT. 
D.	C##_APP_USER1 can be created in CDB1. 
E.	P1_USER1 can be created in CDB1. 
F.	C##_USER1 will have the same privileges and roles granted in all PDBs in CDB1.

NO.43 Which two are true about Oracle instance recovery? (Choose three.) 
A.	Recovery begins from the beginning of the CURRENT redo log group. 
B.	Recovery begins from the last checkpoint position that was calculated by the Database Writer before instance failure. 
C.	Recovery begins from the start of any ACTIVE redo log group or the start of the CURRENT log group if no other group is ACTIVE. 
D.	Recovery reads redo until the end of the redo thread. SMON rolls back any dead transactions, and then the database is opened. 
E.	Recovery begins from the last checkpoint position that was recorded in the control file by the checkpoint process (CKPT). 
F.	Recovery reads redo until the end of the redo thread, and then opens the database. SMON then rolls back any dead transactions.
 
NO.44 Your SALES_ROOT application container has two application PDBs. The SALES_APP application has a common table, FIN.REVENUE, in the two PDBs. Examine this query and its output: 
Which two are true? (Choose two.) 
A.	The CONTAINERS clause cannot be used in queries on the REVENUE table. 
B.	The REVENUE table must be a list-partitioned table. 
C.	The MAPTABLE tables defines a logical partition key on a commonly used column for the REVENUE table.
D.	The MAPTABLE table is a metadata-linked table. 
E.	A container map exists for the REVENUE table, but is not enabled. 
F.	The REVENUE table partitions are not pruned across the PDBs automatically.

NO.45 Which two are true about data movement between a non-CDB and a PDB using Data Pump? (Choose two.) 
A.	Tablespaces are automatically created as needed while importing full exports in either a non-CDB or a PDB. 
B.	Oracle attempts to convert conventional database users to local users when moving schemas from a non-CDB to a PDB. 
C.	A new PDB is automatically created when importing a non-CDB into a CDB. 
D.	Oracle attempts to convert common users to conventional users when moving schemas from a PDB to a non-CDB. 
E.	Moving data from a PDB to a non-CDB is only possible by using transportable tablespace export and import. 
F.	Moving data from a non-CDB to a PDB is only possible by using conventional export and import.

NO.46 Your CDB has two regular PDBs as well as one application container with two application PDBs and an application seed. 
No changes have been made to the standard PDB$SEED. 
How many default temporary tablespaces can be assigned in the CDB? 
A.	three 
B.	eight 
C.	seven
D.	six 
E.	five
 
NO.48 Examine this configuration: 
1. The ORCL database data files are in Automatic Storage Management (Oracle ASM) disk group +DATA. 
2. ORCL uses disk group +FRA for the Fast Recovery Area. 
3. LISTENER is the listener for ORCL.
4. The database, listener, ASM instance, and ASM disk groups are managed by Oracle Restart. 
5. All components are currently shut down. 

You execute this command: 
What is the outcome? 
A.	The ORCL database, the Oracle ASM instances, the +DATA and +FRA disk groups, and the LISTENER are started. 
B.	Only the ORCL database instance is started. 
C.	Only the ORCL database and the ASM instances are started. 
D.	Only the ORCL database instance, the Oracle ASM instance, and the +DATA and +FRA disk groups are started. 
E.	Only the ORCL database instance and the +DATA and +FRA disk groups are started.

NO.50 Which two are true about Oracle Optimizer Statistics, their use, and their collection? (Choose two.) 
A.	The number of table rows is considered when evaluating the cost of accessing a table using an index. 
B.	Index balanced B*Tree height is considered when evaluating the cost of using an index. 
C.	The Statistics Advisor can help recommend the best way to gather statistics. 
D.	Statistics collected using DBMS_STATS always yield the best optimizer result. 
E.	The Statistics Advisor generates actions for all recommendations.

NO.51 A container database called CDB1 is OMF-enabled. PDB_FILE_NAME_CONVERT is not configured in CDB1. PDB1 was unplugged from CDB1 earlier in the week. Examine this command, which will be executed in CDB1: 
CREATE PLUGGABLE DATABASE pdb1 USING ‘/u01/app/oracle/oradata/pdb1.xml’ SOURCE_FILE_NAME_CONVERT = (‘/u01/app/oracle/oradata/’, ‘/u02/app/oracle/oradata/’); 
Which two are true? (Choose two.) 
A.	PDB1 data files already exist in the correct location. 
B.	DBMS_PDB.CHECK_PLUG_COMPATIBILITY must be run in CDB1 before executing the command. 
C.	PDB_FILE_NAME_CONVERT must be set before executing the command. 
D.	/u01/app/oracle/oradata/pdb1.xml does not contain the current locations of data files for PDB1. 
E.	PDB1 must be dropped from CDB1.

NO.52 Which three are true about RMAN persistent configuration settings, administration, and their effects? (Choose three.) 
A.	A target database’s persistent RMAN configuration settings are always stored in the target’s control file. 
B.	Backup older than the recovery window retention policy are always deleted automatically if the backup location has insufficient space. 
C.	Backups written to the fast recovery area (FRA) that are obsolete based on the redundancy retention policy can be deleted automatically to free space. 
D.	The RMAN SHOW ALL command displays only settings with nondefault values. 
E.	A target database’s persistent RMAN configuration settings are always synchronized automatically with the RMAN catalog. 
F.	The V$RMAN_CONFIGURATION view displays only settings with values that have been modified. 
G.	A DBA must specify either a redundancy retention policy or a recovery window retention policy.

NO.53 Which two are true about the Oracle database methodology? (Choose two.) 
A.	The Oracle Database time model should be used to find the database and instance areas most in need of tuning. 
B.	Tuning activities should stop once the user is satisfied with performance. 
C.	Tuning activities should stop once agreed service levels for performance have been met. 
D.	The database instance memory should always be tuned before tuning any file systems. 
E.	SQL statements should always be tuned before tuning any file systems. 
F.	The alert log should be used to find the database and instance areas most in need of tuning.

NO.54 For which two requirements can you use the USER_TABLESPACE clause with the CREATE PLUGGABLE DATABASE command? (Choose two.) 
A.	to specify a default tablespace in a PDB cloned from another PDB in the same CDB. 
B.	to exclude all tablespaces except SYSTEM, SYSAUX, and TEMP when plugging in a PDB 
C.	to include specific user tablespaces only when relocating a PDB 
D.	to specify the list of user tablespaces to include when moving a non-CDB to a PDB 
E.	to exclude a temp tablespace when plugging in a PDB 
F.	to specify the list of tablespaces to include when creating a PDB from the CDB seed

NO.55 Which three are true about an application container? 
A.	It must have an application root PDB. 
B.	It can contain multiple applications. 
C.	An application PDB can belong to multiple application containers. 
D.	Two application containers can share an application seed PDB. 
E.	It can contain a single application. 
F.	It must have an application seed PDB.

NO.56 Which four are true about a Recovery Manager (RMAN) duplication without a TARGET connection? (Choose four.) 
A.	The NOREDO clause must be used if the backups of the database being duplicated were taken when the database was in NOARCHIVELOG mode. 
B.	The UNDO TABLESPACE clause is always required when no connection exists to the TARGET instance. 
C.	RMAN “pushes” the backups of the database to be duplicated over the network to the auxiliary instance. 
D.	The NOREDO clause can be used if the backups of the database being duplicated were taken when the database was in ARCHIVELOG mode. 
E.	RMAN SBT-based backups of the database to be duplicated can be used by the auxiliary instance.
F.	The UNDO TABLESPACE clause is always required when no connection exists to the recovery catalog and the TARGET database is closed. 
G.	The UNDO TABLESPACE clause is always required when no connection exists to the recovery catalog and the TARGET database is opened. 
H.	RMAN disk-based backups of the database to be duplicated can be used by the auxiliary instance.

NO.57 Which three methods can be used for heap table data migration after upgrading a database? (Choose three.) 
A.	using Database Replay 
B.	using SQL Developer 
C.	using Oracle Data Pump 
D.	using operating system file copy utilities 
E.	using Database Upgrade Assistant 
F.	using the CREATE TABLE AS SELECT SQL statement

NO.58 You must transport the UNIVERSITY tablespace from one database to another. 
The UNIVERSITY tablespace is currently open read/write. 
The source and destination platforms have different endian formats. 
Examine this list of actions: 
1. Make the UNIVERSITY tablespace read-only on the source system. 
2. Export the UNIVERSITY tablespace metadata using EXPDP. 
3. Convert the UNIVERSITY tablespace data files to the destination platform format using RMAN on the source system. 
4. Copy the UNIVERSITY tablespace data files to the destination system. 
5. Copy the Data Pump dump set to the destination system. 
6. Convert the UNIVERSITY tablespace data files to the destination platform format using RMAN on the destination system. 
7. Import the UNIVERSITY tablespace metadata using IMPDP. 
8. Make the UNIVERSITY tablespace read/write on the destination system. 

Which is the minimum number of actions required, in the correct order, to transport the UNIVERSITY tablespace? 
A.	1, 2, 4, 5, 7, 8 
B.	1, 2, 4, 6, 7, 8 
C.	1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 7, 8 
D.	1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8 
E.	2, 4, 5, 6, 7

NO.60 Which two are true about duplicating pluggable databases (PDBs) with RMAN? (Choose two.) 
A.	Two or more PDBs can be duplicated with the same RMAN DUPLICATE command. 
B.	All tablespaces belonging to a PDB must be duplicated when duplicating the PDB. 
C.	The auxiliary instance is automatically created with ENABLE_PLUGGABLE_DATABASE = TRUE. 
D.	A user with SYSDBA or SYSBACKUP must be logged in with RMAN to the PDB to duplicate it. 
E.	CDB$ROOT and PDB$SEED are automatically duplicated.

NO.61 Which three are true about monitoring waits for sessions and services? (Choose three.) 
A.	V$SESSION_EVENT displays all waits for all past and existing sessions if the wait has occurred at least once for a session. 
B.	V$SERVICE_EVENT displays all waits for all services if the wait has occurred at least once for a service. 
C.	V$SESSION_WAIT_CLASS displays waits broken down by wait class only for waiting sessions. 
D.	V$SESSION_WAIT and V$SESSION both contain details of the event on which a non-waiting session last waited. 
E.	V$SESSION_EVENT displays all waits for all past sessions if the wait has occurred at least once for a session. 
F.	V$SESSION_WAIT and V$SESSION both contain details of the event on which a session is currently waiting.

NO.63 Which two are facets of performance planning that should always be considered or implemented for an Oracle Database environment? (Choose two.) 
A.	defining primary keys for all tables to speed up all queries 
B.	using check constraints to speed up updates 
C.	defining foreign keys for all tables to speed up joins 
D.	the physical data model 
E.	the configuration of storage arrays

NO.65 Which two are true about common objects? (Choose two.) 
A.	They can be created only in CDB$ROOT. 
B.	They can be only metadata-linked in an application container. 
C.	They can exist in user-defined schemas only in application containers. 
D.	They can exist in CDB$ROOT and an application root. 
E.	They can be extended data-linked in CDB$ROOT. 
F.	They can be created only in an application root.

NO.66 Which three are true about backup, restore, and recovery operations done without using Recovery Manager (RMAN)? (Choose three.) 
A.	Backing up a database in NOARCHIVELOG mode using O/S utilities requires that the database instance be started and the database be in the MOUNT state. 
B.	Backing up a database in ARCHIVELOG mode using O/S utilities requires that the database instance be started and the database be in MOUNT state. 
C.	An Oracle database can be restored from backup files copied using O/S utilities. 
D.	Oracle data file backups, copied using an O/S utility, can be added to the RMAN catalog as IMAGE COPIES. 
E.	Backing up a database in NOARCHIVELOG mode using O/S utilities requires that the database instance be shut down. 
F.	Oracle archive log backups, copied using an O/S utility, can be added to the RMAN catalog as a backup set. 
G.	Backing up a database in ARCHIVELOG mode using O/S utilities requires that the database instance be started and the database be in OPEN state.

NO.67 Examine these queries and their output: 
An online RMAN backup of the CDB was taken an hour before Restore Point R1 was created. You want to recover PDB1 to Restore Point R1. 
How do you achieve this? 
A.	Execute FLASHBACK PLUGGABLE DATABASE PDB1 TO RESTORE POINT R1 by using RMAN while connected to PDB1. 
B.	Execute FLASHBACK PLUGGABLE DATABASE PDB1 TO RESTORE POINT R1 by using SQL while connected to PDB1. 
C.	Execute FLASHBACK PLUGGABLE DATABASE PDB1 TO RESTORE POINT R1 by using SQL while connected to CDB$ROOT. 
D.	Execute FLASHBACK PLUGGABLE DATABASE PDB1 TO RESTORE POINT R1 by using RMAN while connected to CDB$ROOT. 
E.	This cannot be done due to the lack of a clean restore point.
 
NO.68 Which three actions are performed by Database Upgrade Assistant (DBUA)? (Choose three.) 
A.	It recompiles all stored PL/SQL code by using utlrp.sql. 
B.	It empties the RECYCLE BIN. 
C.	It performs prerequisite checks to verify if the Oracle database is ready for upgrade.
D.	It sets all user tablespaces to „read-only” before starting the upgrade. 
E.	It removes the AUDSYS schema and the AUDIT_ADMIN and AUDIT_VIEWER roles 
F.	It increases tablespace size, if required, to meet upgrade requirements.

NO.70 Which three are true about managing memory components in an Oracle database instance? (Choose three.) 
A.	With Automatic Shared Memory Management, the database instance can increase the Large Pool size by reducing the Shared Pool size. 
B.	With Automatic Memory Management, the database instance can increase the System Global Area size by reducing the Program Global Area size. 
C.	Automatically tuned and resized System Global Area components will always revert to their initial sizes after an instance restart. 
D.	Automatic Memory Management must be used together with locking the System Global Area into physical memory.
E.	With Automatic Shared Memory Management, the database instance can increase the Program Global Area size by reducing the System Global Area size. 
F.	On Line Transaction Processing systems often use less Program Global Area than Decision Support Systems.

NO.71 Which two are true about Recovery Manager (RMAN) diagnostic message output? (Choose two.) 
A.	Media Management messages for SBT devices are always written to sbtio.log. 
B.	RMAN error stacks should be read from the bottom up as that is the order in which errors are generated. 
C.	RMAN error stacks should be read from the top down as that is the order in which errors are generated. 
D.	The RMAN LOG command line clause causes output issued during RMAN command compilation to be written to a log file and to standard output. 
E.	The RMAN LOG command line clause causes output issued during RMAN command compilation to be written to a log file only. 
F.	Media Management messages for SBT devices are written to an Oracle trace file.
 
NO.72 You issued this command: 
RMAN> BACKUP RECOVERY FILES; 
Which two are true? (Choose two.) 
A.	All Oracle recovery files not in the current FRA that have not been backed up already, are backed up. 
B.	All non-Oracle files in the current FRA that have not been backed up already, are backed up. 
C.	All Oracle recovery files in the current FRA that have not been backed up already, are backed up. 
D.	All Oracle recovery files in the current fast recovery area (FRA) are backed up. 
E.	These backups can be written to disk or SBT.

NO.73 Which three are true about upgrading Oracle Grid Infrastructure? (Choose three.) 
A.	A direct upgrade can be performed only from the immediately preceding Oracle Grid Infrastructure version. 
B.	The newer version is installed in a separate Oracle Grid Infrastructure home on the same server as the existing version. 
C.	An existing Oracle base can be used. 
D.	The upgrade process will automatically install all mandatory patches for the current version of Oracle Grid Infrastructure. 
E.	Existing Oracle Database instances must be shut down before starting the upgrade. 
F.	Only the grid user can perform the upgrade.

NO.74 Oracle Managed Files (OMF) is enabled in a CDB and this command is successfully executed: 
Which three are true? (Choose three.) 
A.	Application PDBs that are subsequently created in the APP1 application container will be cloned from APP1$SEED. 
B.	An application seed PDB is created for APP1. 
C.	An application root PDB is created for APP1. 
D.	A default service is created for the application root APP1. 
E.	Application PDBs that are subsequently created in the APP1 application container will be cloned from PDB$SEED.
F.	APP1 can never be unplugged.
 
NO.75 Which two are true about flashback features in Oracle Database 19c and later releases? (Choose two.) 
A.	Flashback logs are automatically purged when DB_FLASHBACK_RETENTION_TARGET is set lower than the time they have already been retained. 
B.	Flashback logs are monitored and proactively deleted when beyond the retention period defined in DB_FLASHBACK_RETENTION_TARGET only after there is space pressure. 
C.	Flashback logs are monitored and proactively deleted when beyond the retention period defined in DB_FLASHBACK_RETENTION_TARGET before there is space pressure. 
D.	Flashback logs are monitored for being older than the retention period defined in DB_FLASHBACK_RETENTION_TARGET and can be deleted by an administrator written event trigger. 
E.	Flashback logs are automatically purged whenever the value of DB_FLASHBACK_RETENTION_TARGET is changed.

NO.79 Which four are true about RMAN backup sets? (Choose four.) 
A.	A backup piece can belong to only one backup set. 
B.	A data file can be split into multiple sections stored in different backup sets. 
C.	A data file can be split into multiple sections stored in different backup pieces in the same backup set.
D.	Blocks from multiple data files can be contained in one backup piece.
E.	A backup set can contain only one backup piece. 
F.	A backup set must be written to media. 
G.	A backup set must be written to disk. 
H.	Blocks from multiple data files can be contained in one backup set.

NO.80 Your container database, CDB1, has an application container, HR_ROOT, with an application PDB, HR_PDB1. 
You have the required privilege to clone HR_PDB1 to container database CDB2, which does not contain HR_ROOT. 
Which two are always true? (Choose two.) 
A.	CDB1 and CDB2 must be in shared undo mode. 
B.	A common user must exist in CDB2 with the CREATE PLUGGABLE DATABASE privilege. 
C.	All transactions in HR_PDB1 of CDB1 must commit before the cloning process starts. 
D.	Cloning HR_ROOT automatically clones HR_PDB1. 
E.	The HR_PDB1 clone created in CDB2 will be in mount state when cloning ends.
 
NO.81 Which two are true about instance recovery? (Choose two.) 
A.	It is not possible if an archived log is missing. 
B.	It is performed automatically after the database is opened; however, blocks requiring recovery are not available until they are recovered. 
C.	Setting FAST_START_MTTR_TARGET to a lower value reduces instance recovery time by causing dirty buffers to be written to disk more frequently, thereby reducing the number of I/Os needed during instance recovery. 
D.	It is performed by the Recovery Writer (RVWR) background process. 
E.	Setting FAST_START_MTTR_TARGET to a higher value reduces instance recovery time by causing the log writer to write more frequently, thereby reducing the number of I/Os needed during instance recovery. 
F.	It is performed automatically while the database remains in MOUNT state. Then the database is opened.

NO.82 Which three are true about Oracle Grid Infrastructure for a Standalone Server? 
A.	It includes both Oracle Restart and Oracle Automatic Storage Management (ASM) software. 
B.	It creates one disk group during installation. 
C.	It requires the operating system oracle_base environment variable to be predefined before installation. 
D.	It requires Oracle ASM Filter Driver (ASMFD) to manage Automatic Storage Management (ASM) disks 
E.	It requires Oracle ASMLib to manage Automatic Storage Management (ASM) disks. 
F.	Automatic Storage Management (ASM) requires that O/S groups OSASM and OSDBA be assigned as secondary groups for its installation owner.

NO.83 Which three are true? (Choose three.) 
A.	Virtual Private Database (VPD) policies on objects in an application root are automatically synchronized with all application PDBs contained in the application container. 
B.	Application-common TSDP policies are always container specific. 
C.	Application-common Transparent Security Data Protection (TSDP) policies can be created only within an application install/patch BEGIN-END block. 
D.	Application-common Oracle Label Security (OLS) policies cannot be created in an application root outside an install/patch BEGIN-END block.
E.	Fine-grained auditing (FGA) policies in an application root are automatically synchronized to all application PDBs contained in the application container. 
F.	Application-common OLS policies can be created in an application root inside an install/patch BEGIN-END block. 
G.	Unified auditing can be automatically synchronized to all application PDBs in an application container.
 
NO.84 A container database (CDB) contains two pluggable databases PDB1 and PDB2. 
The LOCAL_UNDO_ENABLED database property is set to FALSE in the CDB. Data file 24 of PDB2 was deleted and you need to restore and recover it. 
The only RMAN backup that exists was created with the BACKUP DATABASE command while connected to CDB$ROOT. 
Which three are true? (Choose three.) 
A.	Data file 24 can be recovered only while connected to PDB2. 
B.	Data file 24 can be restored and recovered while connected to CDB$ROOT. 
C.	Data file 24 can be restored only while connected to CDB$ROOT. 
D.	Data file 24 can be restored only while connected to PDB2. 
E.	Data file 24 can be recovered while connected to PDB2. 
F.	Data file 24 can be recovered while connected to CDB$ROOT.

NO.85 Examine this output: 
Which two are true? (Choose two.) 
A.	Any PDB not specified in the plan will be unable to execute statements in parallel. 
B.	PDB3 can use all available parallel execution processes at times. 
C.	PDB1 is always limited to 40% of the available system resources regardless of demand. 
D.	Any PDB not specified in the plan will be able to use a maximum of 16.5% of the available system resources. 
E.	PDB3 is guaranteed to receive at least 20% of the available system resources if there is enough demand. 
F.	PDB2 is guaranteed at least 25% of the available parallel execution processes if there is enough demand.
 
NO.86 Examine the command for creating pluggable database PDB2 in container database CDB2.

Select three options, any one of which is required for it to execute successfully. (Choose three.)
A.	Add the FILE_NAME_CONVERT clause to the statement and set the PDB_FILE_NAME_CONVERT parameter. 
B.	Add only the CREATE_FILE_DEST clause to the statement. 
C.	Set only the PDB_FILE_NAME_CONVERT parameter. 
D.	Set the PDB_FILE_NAME_CONVERT parameter and enable OMF. 
E.	Enable only OMF.
F.	Add the FILE_NAME_CONVERT clause to the statement and enable Oracle Managed Files (OMF).

NO.87 How do you configure a CDB for local undo mode? 
A.	Open the CDB instance in upgrade mode. In cdb$root, execute alter database local undo on, and then restart the CDB instance. 
B.	Open the CDB in read-only mode. In cdb$root, execute alter database local undo on, and then change the CDB to read/write mode. 
C.	Open the CDB instance in restricted mode. In cdb$root, execute alter database local undo on. create an undo tablespace in each PDB, and then restart the CDB instance. 
D.	Open the CDB instance in restricted mode. In cdb$root, drop the undo tablespace. Execute alter database local undo on in each PDB, and then restart the CDB instance. 
E.	Open the CDB instance in upgrade mode. In each PDB, execute alter database local undo on, create an undo tablespace, and then restart the CDB instance.

NO.91 Which three are true about the SQL Tuning Advisor? (Choose three.)
A.	It checks each query being analyzed for stale statistics. 
B.	It checks each query being analyzed for missing statistics. 
C.	It only recommends syntactic changes to SQL statements. 
D.	It can recommend semantic changes to SQL statements. 
E.	It considers all SQL statements being analyzed by the advisor task as a group. 
F.	It builds SQL profiles for each poorly performing SQL statement to prevent regressions.

NO.92 While backing up to the Oracle Fast Recovery Area (FRA), you determined the backup is taking too long and suspect a performance bottleneck. 
Which three are true about diagnosing and tuning these problems? (Choose three.) 
A.	If an RMAN BACKUP VALIDATE command takes roughly the same time as an actual backup, then both read and write I/O are likely bottlenecks. 
B.	Setting DBWR_IO_SLAVES to a non zero value can improve backup performance when using synchronous I/O. 
C.	If an RMAN BACKUP VALIDATE command takes noticeably less than an actual backup, then write I/O is a likely bottleneck. 
D.	If an RMAN BACKUP VALIDATE command takes roughly the same time as an actual backup, then read I/O is a likely bottleneck. 
E.	Data files with a high value in V$BACKUP_SYNC_IO.DISCRETE_BYTES_PER_SECOND are a potential performance bottleneck when synchronous I/O is used. 
F.	Setting DBWR_IO_SLAVES to a non zero value can improve backup performance when using asynchronous I/O. 
G.	Data files with a high value in V$BACKUP_ASYNC_IO.SHORT_WAITS are a potential performance bottleneck when asynchronous I/O is used.

NO.93 Which four are true about performing Tablespace Point -In-Time Recovery (TSPITR) using Recovery Manager (RMAN)?
A.	It can be performed using an auxiliary instance managed by a DBA. 
B.	It can be used to recover a truncated table. 
C.	RMAN automatically adds any required tablespaces to the recovery set to make it self-contained. 
D.	RMAN always includes tablespaces containing undo segments in the recovery set. 
E.	It can be performed repeatedly until the correct time is found without using an RMAN catalog. 
F.	flashback database must be enabled for it to work. 
G.	It can be used to recover a dropped tablespace. 
H.	It can be performed using an auxiliary instance managed by RMAN.

NO.95 Which two are true about OS groups and users for Oracle Grid Infrastructure and the Oracle Relational Database Management System (RDBMS)? (Choose two.) 
A.	By default, members of the OSASM group can access Automatic Storage Management and RDBMS instances. 
B.	The primary group for the Oracle Grid Infrastructure and Oracle Database owners must be the Oracle Inventory group.
C.	The Oracle Grid Infrastructure installation must be owned by the grid user. 
D.	The Oracle Grid Infrastructure owner owns Oracle Restart and Oracle Automatic Storage Management binaries. 
E.	The Oracle Grid Infrastructure owner must have OSOPER, OSBACKUPDBA and OSKMDBA as secondary groups. 
F.	The same OSDBA group must be used for Automatic Storage Management and the Oracle Database.

NO.96 Which three are true about Automatic Workload Repository (AWR), Automatic Database Diagnostic Monitor (ADDM), and the Manageability Monitor (MMON) background process? (Choose three.) 
A.	ADDM can recommend shrinking the buffer cache. 
B.	ADDM can recommend extending the buffer cache. 
C.	By default, MMON creates an AWR snapshot every 30 minutes. 
D.	ADDM performs its analysis only when a DBA requests it. 
E.	By default, AWR snapshots are automatically purged after eight days. 
F.	AWR snapshots must be deleted when no longer required by ADDM.
