GoldenGate Interview Questions

Basic-Level Interview Questions

1. What is Oracle GoldenGate?
Oracle GoldenGate is a real-time data replication and integration 
solution that enables transactional data to be moved across 
heterogeneous systems with minimal latency. It supports 
high-availability, zero-downtime migration, reporting offloading, 
and active-active database configurations.

2. What are the key components of Oracle GoldenGate architecture?
The core components of Oracle GoldenGate architecture are:

Extract: Captures committed changes from the source database redo or transaction logs.
Data Pump (optional): Secondary extract that transfers data across networks to the target.
Trail Files: Intermediate files that store captured changes in a platform-independent format.
Replicat: Applies the captured data changes to the target database.
Checkpoint Files: Maintain the read/write position for Extract and Replicat for recovery.
Manager: Controls, starts, stops, and monitors all GoldenGate processes.
GGSCI (GoldenGate Software Command Interface): Command-line interface for administration.

3. What is the difference between Classic Capture and Integrated Capture?

Feature	            Classic Capture	                    Integrated Capture
Architecture        GoldenGate-native process	        Integrated with Oracle LogMiner infrastructure
Performance	        Moderate, log parsing is external	High performance, uses Oracle Streams APIs
Supported Features	Limited support for newer features	Supports CDB/PDB, compressed data, XML, etc.
Database Dependency	Less tightly coupled	            Requires Oracle 11.2.0.4 or higher

4. What is the difference between Classic Replicat and Integrated Replicat?

Feature	            Classic Replicat	                Integrated Replicat
Execution	        Single-threaded	                    Multi-threaded (parallel apply)
Parallelism	        Limited	                            Built-in parallelism and dependency awareness
Performance	        Lower for high-volume environments	Suitable for high-throughput and scalability
Use Cases	        Simple DML replication	            High-volume OLTP systems

5. Explain the role of the Extract, Data Pump, and Replicat processes.

Extract: Captures committed DML and DDL changes from the source database’s redo or transaction logs.
Data Pump: Transfers trail files from source to target over the network; allows compression and encryption.
Replicat: Reads the trail files on the target side and applies the changes to the target database in the 
same transactional order.

6. What are trail files? Where are they stored and what is their purpose?

Trail files are platform-independent files used to store the transactional changes extracted from the source database. They act as a staging area between Extract/Data Pump and Replicat processes. These files are:

Local Trail: Between Extract and Data Pump
Remote Trail: Between Data Pump and Replicat (on target server)

They are stored in GoldenGate’s dirdat directory by default.

7. Can GoldenGate replicate between different versions of Oracle?

Yes, GoldenGate supports heterogeneous version replication (e.g., Oracle 11g to 19c), provided that:

The versions are compatible per Oracle’s documented interoperability matrix.
Feature differences (like data types, features, etc.) are handled explicitly during configuration.

8. What types of replication does GoldenGate support?

GoldenGate supports various replication models:

Unidirectional: One-way replication from source to target.
Bidirectional: Two-way replication for active-active environments.
Peer-to-peer: Multi-master replication across multiple nodes.
Broadcast: One source to multiple targets.
Consolidation: Multiple sources to one target.

9. What are the minimum privileges required for GoldenGate user in Oracle?

For Classic Capture:

SELECT ANY TRANSACTION
ALTER SESSION
CONNECT
RESOURCE
EXECUTE_CATALOG_ROLE
FLASHBACK ANY TABLE

For Integrated Capture/Replicat (Oracle 12c and above), the user needs:

DBA privileges or specific GRANTs to use DBMS_CAPTURE_ADM, DBMS_STREAMS_ADM, 
and execute procedures related to Streams, Redo mining, and Replication.

10. What is the purpose of checkpoint files in GoldenGate?

Checkpoint files record the last successfully processed data position 
(Log Sequence Number or Relative Byte Address) for Extract and Replicat processes. 
This ensures:

Data consistency in case of process restarts or failures.
Fast recovery, allowing processes to resume from the last good point.
Minimizes risk of data loss or duplication.
