Oracle Administrator Question & Answers
***************************************
1) State five duties of an Oracle DBA?
    Duties of a DBA might include software and hardware installation, 
    configuration of new hardware and software, security, performance tunning, 
    backup and recovery, routine maintenance, trouble shooting and failure recovery.
 	
2) What is the primary duty of the DBA?
    The primary duty of the DBA is to protect the database and provide continuous 
    access to that data for the user community.

3) What is database?
    Databse is a structure that stores information about multiple types of entities, 
    the attributes (or characteristics) of the entities, and the relationships among the entities.
	
4) What is a database instance?
     A database instance is a set of memory structure and background processes that 
     access a set of database files. The processes can be shared by all of the users.

5) What is the differnece between DBMS and RDBMS?
    DBMS is program that defines rules for data stroage and retrival,
    RDBMS is special type of DBMS that stores the data in relational 
    format as described in the relational.

6) What are the components of an oracle instance ?
     Background process and memory structures.

7) What are the components of sga ?
     Buffer cache, log buffer, shared pool, large pool,  and java pool.

8) Why do you need pga?
     It is a memory area used by oracle instance. it is requried to strore 
     session specific information.

9) What are the different types of memory structures available in oracle?
     Shared Global Area (SGA) and Program Global Area(PGA)

10) What is database writer(DBWR) ?
       It writes changed data blocks (dirty blocks) from buffer cache to datafile.

11) When does DBWR write to the datafile?
       When checkpoint occurs
       When number of dirty blocks reaches a threshold
       Every three seconds due to timeout
       When server process needs free space in buffer cache to read new blocks

11) What are the differences between clustered and a non-clustered index?
      A clustered index is a special type of index that reorders the way 
      records in the table are physically stored. Therefore table can have 
      only one clustered index. The leaf nodes of a clustered index contain 
      the data pages. 

      A Nonclustered index is a special type of index in which the logical 
      order of the index does not match the physical stored order of the rows on disk.

12) What is a Tablespace?
       A database is divided into Logical Storage Units called tablespaces. 
       A tablespace is used to group related logical structures together.

13) Why we use materialized views instead of a table?
      Materialized views are basically used to increase query performance 
      since it contains results of a query. They should be used for reporting 
      instead of a table for a faster execution.

14) What are the different Oracle database objects?
       TABLES
       VIEWS
       INDEXES
       SYNONYMS
       SEQUENCES
       TABLESPACES

15) What is schema?
       A schema is collection of database objects of a user.

16) What are Roles?
      Roles are named groups of related privileges that are granted to users or other roles.

17) What are the dictionary tables used to monitor a database spaces ?
      DBA_FREE_SPACE
      DBA_SEGMENTS
      DBA_DATA_FILES

18) Explain the difference between a data block, an extent and a segment?
      A data block is the smallest unit of logical storage for a database 
      object. As objects grow they take chunks of additional storage that 
      are composed of contiguous data blocks. These groupings of contiguous 
      data blocks are called extents. All the extents that an object takes 
      when grouped together are considered the segment of the database object.

19) What command would you use to create a backup control file?
       alter database backup control file to trace;

20) What is difference between UNIQUE constraint and PRIMARY KEY constraint?
       A column defined as UNIQUE can contain Nulls while a column defined 
       as PRIMARY KEY can't contain Nulls. A table can have only one primary key.

21) What is a data segment?
      Data segments are the physical areas within a database block in which 
      the data associated with tables and clusters are stored.

22) Name a tablespace, which is automatically created when you create a database?
      The system tablespace is created automatically during database creation.

23) Which flle is accessed first when you start an oracle database?
       Parameter file, and spfile. 

24) What are the advantages of using spfile?
       It supports dynamic changes in parameter values.
       The changes in spfile can only be made by using in oracle statements.
       Backup of spfile is possible through RMAN.

25) How do you view parameter values when you are using pfile or spfile?
      Show parameter command from sql*plus and query v$paramter command 
      view to see values of the paqramters.

      show parameter spfile;

26) How can you convert spfile to pfile and pfile to spfile?
      sql> create spfile from pfile;
      sql> create pfile from spfile;
      sql> create spfile from memory;
      sql> create pfile from memory;

21) How can you backup the parameter files?
      In Rman 
      RMAN> configure controlfile autobackup on;
      In Rman restore an spfile
      RMAN> restore controfile from autobackup;

22) What happens after a user process fails?
       PMON clean up the memory after user process fails. 

21) What is the difference between database and instance?
       Database is a collection of data files that contain the 
       information of interest; whereas, instance is the 
       combination of background processes and memory structure.
 	
22) What are the three types of files that make up an Oracle database?
    They were called CRD files.
      Datafiles
      Control files and
      Redo log files.

23) What is the Oracle Enterprise manager?
      The Oracle Enterprise Manager is the new graphical administration 
      tool designed to help the DBA manage one or more Oracle systems.

24) Name three Oracle Utilities?
      The SQL*Loader
      The Export utility and
      The Import utility

25) What is the difference between PGA and SGA?
       The basic difference between SGA and PGA is that PGA cannot be 
       shared between multiple processes, in the sense, that it is 
       used only for requirements of a particular process whereas 
       the SGA is used for the whole instance and it is shared.

26) What are the types of privileges?
       System Privileges
       Object Privileges

27) What is the difference between system and object privileges?
       This statement when executed will display all the available 
       system privileges such as Create Session, Drop User, Alter Database and so on.

28) What is a log switch?
       A log switch is a point when log Writer (LGWR) fills one online 
       redo log group and writing to another. At every log switch 
       a checkpoint occurs.

29) What is Global Resource Directory (GRD)?
      GRD is used by GES and GCS to maintain status of datefiles 
      and cached blocks. This process provides required information 
      for cache fusion and maintains data integrity.

30) What background process refreshes materialized views?
       The job queue

31) What is the Recovery Manager used for?
      The Recovery Manager is used for backup and recovery. 
      This product performs these operations and maintains 
      a catalog of previous backups.
 	
32) What is the difference between an index cluster and a hash cluster?
     An index cluster is a cluster that has an index on the cluster key,
     Whereas the hash cluster uses a hashing function to access the cluster key.

33) What is a recovery catalog?
    Recovery catalog is an inventory of the backup taken by RMAN for the database.  
    It is used to restore a physical backup, reconstruct it, and make it 
    available to the server.
 	
34) What is load balancing?
    Load balancing is a server process that monitors loading on all of 
    the forms servers. Each of the forms servers runs a load balancing 
    client which keeps the load balancing server apprised of its load.

35) What in Streams pool in Oracle 10g?
    Streams pool is a part of System Global Area (SGA) from which memory 
    for streams is allocated if it is configured. It can be configured 
    by specifying initialization parameter STREAMS_POOL_SIZE.
 
36) Name the four types of segments?
      Data
      Index
      Rollback
      Temporary

37) What is a dedicated server process?
      A dedicated server process has a one to one correlation between 
      the user process and the server process.
      Each user process gets one server process.

38) What Oracle object is used for read consistency?
       The rollback segments are used for read consistency.

39) What is RAC Cluster?
       RAC Cluster is a database with a shared cache architecture 
       that overcomes the limitations of traditional shared nothing 
       and shared disk approaches.
       It is a key component of Oracle's private cloud architecture.

40) What is the control file?
      Control file is a file that contains all the information about 
      the physical structure of the database, such as the number of 
      log files and their location.

41) What is the difference between incremental backup and differential backup?
      Both, incremental and differential backup files that have been 
      modified or created after the previous backup. However, attributes 
      are reset after the incremental backup but after the differential backup.

42) Which files must be backed up?
      Database files
      Control files
      Archived log files

43) What is the use of Oracle Cluster Registry (OCR)?
      OCR stores information about cluster resources and their 
      configuration. The CRS process uses that information to manage resources.
 	
44) What are the different types of connection load balancing?
      Server side load balancing
      Client side load balancing

45) What is system change number?
       SCN is an ID that Oracle generates for every transaction. It is 
       recorded with the corresponding change in a redo entry.

46) What is an SID?
       The SID is the system identifier. This environment variable is 
       used to determine which database to connect to.

47) What is the difference between hot backup and cold backup?
       Hot backup is taken when database is still online while cold 
       backup is taken when database is offline.
       Database needs to be in the archive log mode for the hot backup 
       but there is no such requirement for the cold backup.

48) What Oracle object is used for recovery operations?
      The redo log files and the archieve log files are used for 
      database recovery.

50) What is SQL*Loader?
       SQL*Loader is a tool to load data from file to a database table.

52) What is a synonym?
       A synonym is simply an alias to another object in the database. 
       This object can be a table, view, sequence or program unit.

53) What is archive log file?
       Archive log file stores redo log information persistentiy. 
       A redo log is overwritten with time; therefore, archive log 
       maintains that lost information.

54) What is a backup set?
      Backup set is a logical grouping of backup files that are 
      created when you issue an RMAN backup command. It is RMANs 
      name for a collection of files associated with a backup. 
      A backup set is composed of one or more backup pieces.
 	
51) What does database tier consist of?
      Database tier consists of Oracle database, which stores all 
      the data. The database server contains Oracle Home and data files.

52) What is an interconnect network?
      An interconnect network is a network between nodes of a cluster. 
      It uses switches to ensure that only nodes can access this network. 
      Generally, this is a high speed connection.
 	
53) What is a shared server process?
      The shared server process handles more than one user process. 
      The dispatcher queues the job and the shared server process executes it.
 
54) What is the parameter file?
      The parameter file is a file that contains additional command line parameters.

55) What is rolling upgrade?
      Rolling upgrade refers to the software upgrade while database is still 
      functional without bringing the database down for upgrade. 
      This is the new feature of Oracle 11g.

56) What is the difference between SPFILE and PFILE?
      Oracle can use both SPFILE and PFILE as initialization parameter files.
      SPFILE is a binary file while PFILE is a text file.
      You can change the values in PFILE by directly by editing it but 
      those changes would not take effect until the restart of the database.
 
57) What is RAC?
      Real application cluster (RAC) is a clustering solution.
      It ensures high availability for database application.
      A RAC setup contains at least two nodes for a database.
      RAC provides high availability and load balancing through these nodes.

58) How do you control the maximum number of redo log files in a database?
      The maximum number of redo log files can be controlled by the parameter MAXLOGFILES.

59) What is the difference between a privilege and a role?
       A privilege is the authority to perform a certain act or command.
       A role is a collection of privileges and roles that can be assigned to a user.

60) How many types of cloning are available?
      Adclone
      Rapidclone

61) What is LoGWRiter (LGWR)?
       LGWR is the background process that writes redo information 
       from redo log buffers to the log files.

62) What is the difference between a temporary table space and a 
    permanent table space?
    A temporary tablespace provides temporary storage during the processing 
    of database function, such as sorting; whereas
    A permanent tablespace is used to store permanent database objects, 
    such as tables, partitions, indexes and clusters.

63) What is RMAN?
    RMAN is an Oracle supplied tool or utility that can be used to manage 
    backup and recovery activities.
 	
64) What is ACFS?
    ACFS provides an Oracle Home shared file system or a general cluster 
    file system on ASM storage. It needs ASM Dynamic Volume Manager (ADVM) 
    to communicate to the operating system.

65) What are the disk components?
      Data files
      Redo Logs
      Control files
      Password files and
      Parameter files
      are the disk components.

66) What is a primary key?
    A primary key is an attribute (or a collection of attributes) that 
    uniquely identifies each row in the table. In other words, each 
    entity instance in a table must be unique; and therefore, primary key 
    is a way of ensuring this.

67) What is a foreign key?
    A foreign key is an attribute in a child table that matches the 
    primary key value in the parent table.



Oracle DBA Interview Questions and Answers - Architecture
*********************************************************
    
1) What is the primary duty of the DBA?
    The primary duty of the DBA is to protect the database and provide 
    continuous access to that data for the user community.

    Duties of a DBA might include software and hardware installation, 
    configuration of new hardware and software, security, performance tunning, 
    backup and recovery, routine maintenance, trouble shooting and failure recovery.
 	
2) What is the difference between oracle SID and Oracle service name?
    Oracle SID is the unique name that uniquely identifies your 
    instance/database where as the service name is the TNS alias can be 
    same or different as SID.

3) What are bind variables?
    With bind variable in SQL, Oracle can cache queries in a single time 
    in the SQL cache area. This avoids a hard parse each time, which saves 
    on various locking and latching resources we use to check object existence 
    and so on.

4) What is the difference between data block/extent/segment?
    A data block is the smallest unit of logical storage for a database object. 
    As objects grow they take chunks of additional storage that are composed of 
    contiguous data blocks. These groupings of contiguous data blocks are called 
    extents. All the extents that an object takes when grouped together are considered 
    the segment of the database object.

5) What is SGA? Define structure of shared pool component of SGA?
    The system global area is a group of shared memory area that is dedicated to 
    oracle instance. All oracle processes uses the SGA to hold information. The SGA 
    is used to store incoming data and internal control information that is needed 
    by the database. You can control the SGA memory by setting the parameter db_cache_size, 
    shared_pool_size and log_buffer.

    Shared pool portion contain three major area: 
    Library cache
    data dictionary cache
    data buffer cache

6) What is the difference between SMON and PMON processes?
     SMON (System Monitor) performs recovery after instance failure, monitor temporary 
     segments and extents; clean temp segment, coalesce free space. It is mandatory 
     process of DB and starts by default.

     PMON (Process Monitor) failed process resources. In shared server architecture 
     monitor and restarts any failed dispatcher or server process. It is mandatory 
     process of DB and starts by default.

7) What is the main purpose of CHECKPOINT in oracle database?
    A checkpoint is a database event, which synchronize the database blocks in 
    memory with the datafiles on disk. It has two main purposes: To establish 
    a data consistency and enable faster database Recovery.

8) What happens when we fire SQL statement in Oracle?
    First it will check the syntax and semantics in library cache, 
    after that it will create execution plan. 
    If already data is in buffer cache it will directly return to the client. 
    If not it will fetch the data from datafiles and write to the 
    database buffer cache after that it will send server and finally 
    server send to the client.

9) What is the use of large pool, which case you need to set the large pool?
    You need to set large pool if you are using: MTS (Multi thread server) 
    and RMAN Backups. Large pool prevents RMAN & MTS from competing with other 
    sub system for the same memory. RMAN uses the large pool for backup & restore 
    when you set the DBWR_IO_SLAVES or BACKUP_TAPE_IO_SLAVES parameters to 
    simulate asynchronous I/O. If neither of these parameters is enabled, then 
    Oracle allocates backup buffers from local process memory rather than 
    shared memory. Then there is no use of large pool.

10) What does database do during the mounting process?
    While mounting the database oracle reads the data from controlfile which 
    is used for verifying physical database files during sanity check. Background 
    processes are started before mounting the database only.

11) What is log switch?
    The point at which oracle ends writing to one online redo log file and 
    begins writing to another is called a log switch. Sometimes you can force the log switch.
    
    ALTER SYSTEM SWITCH LOGFILE;

12) How to check Oracle database version?
    SQL> Select * from v$version;

13) Explain Oracle Architecture?
Oracle Instance:
means to access an Oracle database,always opens one and only one database and 
consists of memory structures and background process.

Oracle server:
a DBMS that provides an open, comprehensive, integrated approach to information 
management,Consists of an Instance and a database.

Oracle database:
a collection of data that is treated as a unit, Consists of Datafiles, Control files, 
Redo log files. (optional param file, passwd file, archived log).

Instance memory Structures:
System Global Area (SGA):
SGA Memory structures:
Includes Shared Pool, Database Buffer Cache, Redo Log Buffer, Data Dictionary Cache, 
Database Buffer Cache, User process, Server process.

Program Global Area (PGA):  
Memory area used by a single Oracle server process.
Allocated when the server process is started, deallocated when the process is 
terminated and used by only one process.
Used to process SQL statements and to hold logon and other session information.

Background processes: 
Started when an Oracle Instance is started.
Background Processes Maintains and enforces relationships between physical and memory structures.

There are two types of database processes:
      1. Mandatory background processes
      2. Optional background processes
Mandatory background processes:
  DBWn, PMON, CKPT, LGWR, SMON
Optional background processes:
  ARCn, LMDn, RECO, CJQ0, LMON, Snnn, Dnnn, Pnnn, LCKn, QMNn

System Monitor (SMON) Responsibilities:
  Instance recovery
Process Monitor (PMON) Cleans up after failed processes by:
  Rolling back the transaction
  Releasing locks

14) Why do you run orainstRoot and ROOT.SH once you finalize 
    the Installation?
    orainstRoot.sh needs to be run to change the Permissions and 
    groupname to 770 and to dba.
    Root.sh (ORACLE_HOME) location needs to be run to create a 
    ORATAB in /etc/oratab or /opt/var/oratab in Solaris and to 
    copy dbhome, oraenv and coraenv to /usr/local/bin.
    orainstRoot.sh

15) What is oraInventory?
    oraInventory is repository (directory) which store/records oracle 
    software products & their oracle_homes location on a machine. 
    This Inventory now a days in XML format and called as XML Inventory 
    where as in past it used to be in binary format & called as binary Inventory.

16) Difference between RESETLOGS and NORESETLOGS ?
    I) The NORESETLOGS option does not clear the redo log files during 
       startup and the online redo logs to be used for recovery. Only 
       used in scenario where MANUAL RECOVERY is started, CANCEL is used, 
       and then RECOVER DATABASE is started.
    II)Once RESETLOGS is used then the redo log files cannot be used 
       and any completed transactions in those redo logs are lost!!

17) What is SCN (System Change Number) ?
      The system change number (SCN) is an ever-increasing value that uniquely 
      identifies a committed version of the database at a point in time. Every 
      time a user commits a transaction Oracle records a new SCN in redo logs.

      Oracle uses SCNs in control files datafile headers and redo records. 
      Every redo log file has both a log sequence number and low and high SCN. 
      The low SCN records the lowest SCN recorded in the log file while the 
      high SCN records the highest SCN in the log file.

18) What is Database Incarnation?
      Database incarnation is effectively a new  version  of the database 
      that happens when you reset the online redo logs using  
      alter database open resetlogs;
      Database incarnation falls into following category 
      Current, Parent, Ancestor and Sibling.

19) How to view Database Incarnation history of Database?
      Using SQL> select * from v$database_incarnation;
      Using RMAN>LIST INCARNATION;

20) What is SGA_TARGET and SGA_MAX_SIZE ?
       SGA_MAX_SIZE is the largest amount of memory that will 
       be available for the SGA in the instance and it will 
       be allocated from memory. You do not have to use it all, 
       but it will be potentially wasted if you set it too high 
       and don't use it. It is not a dynamic parameter. Basically 
       it gives you room for the Oracle instance to grow.

       SGA_TARGET is actual memory in use by the current SGA. This 
       parameter is dynamic and can be increased up to the value of SGA_MAX_SIZE.

21) What is an Oracle Instance?
       An Oracle database server consists of an Oracle database 
       and an Oracle instance. Every time a database is started, 
       a system global area (SGA) is allocated and Oracle 
       background processes are started. The combination of 
       the background processes and memory buffers is called 
       an Oracle instance. We can run multiple instances on the 
       same Oracle Database Server, where each instance connects 
       to its database.

22) What information is stored in Control File?
Oracle Database must have at least one control file. Its a binary file contains like:
The database name and unique ID
The timestamp of database creation
The names and locations of associated datafiles and redo log files
Tablespace information
Datafile offline ranges
Archived log information and history
Backup set and backup piece information
Backup datafile and redo log information
Datafile copy information
Log records: sequence numbers, SCN range in each log
RMAN Catalog
Database block corruption information

23) When you start an Oracle DB which file is accessed first?
    Oracle first opens and reads the initialization parameter file (init.ora)

24) What is Instance Recovery?
    While Oracle instance fails, Oracle performs an Instance Recovery 
    when the associated database is being re-started.

Instance recovery occurs in two steps:

Cache recovery:
Changes being made to a database are recorded in the database buffer cache. 
These changes are also recorded in online redo log files simultaneously. 
When there are enough data in the database buffer cache, they are written 
to data files. If an Oracle instance fails before the data in the database 
buffer cache are written to data files, Oracle uses the data recorded in 
the online redo log files to recover the lost data when the associated 
database is re-started. This process is called cache recovery.

Transaction recovery:
When a transaction modifies data in a database, the before image of 
the modified data is stored in an undo segment. The data stored in 
the undo segment is used to restore the original values in case a 
transaction is rolled back. At the time of an instance failure, 
the database may have uncommitted transactions. It is possible that 
changes made by these uncommitted transactions have gotten saved 
in data files. To maintain read consistency, Oracle rolls back 
all uncommitted transactions when the associated database is re-started. 
Oracle uses the undo data stored in undo segments to accomplish this. 
This process is called transaction recovery.

25) What is a Tablespace
       A tablespace is a logical storage unit within an Oracle database. 
       Tablespace is not visible in the file system of the machine on 
       which the database resides. A tablespace, in turn, consists of 
       at least one datafile which, in turn, are physically located 
       in the file system of the server.
       
       A datafile belongs to exactly one tablespace. Each table, index 
       and so on that is stored in an Oracle database belongs to a 
       tablespace. The tablespace builds the bridge between the Oracle 
       database and the filesystem in which the table s or index  data is stored.
      Permanent tablespaces
      Undo tablespaces
      Temporary tablespaces

26) Which default Database roles are created when you create a Database?
      CONNECT , RESOURCE and DBA are three default roles. The DBA_ROLES data 
      dictionary view can be used to list all roles of a database and the 
      authentication used for each role.

27) What is a Checkpoint?
      A checkpoint occurs when the DBWR (database writer) process writes 
      all modified buffers in the SGA buffer cache to the database data 
      files. Data file headers are also updated with the latest checkpoint 
      SCN, even if the file had no changed blocks. Checkpoints occur 
      AFTER (not during) every redo log switch and also at intervals 
      specified by initialization parameters.

28) Which Process reads data from Datafiles?
      Server Process 
      There is no background process which reads data from datafile or 
      database buffer. Oracle creates server processes to handle requests 
      from connected user processes. A server process communicates with 
      the user process and interacts with Oracle to carry out requests 
      from the associated user process. For example, if a user queries 
      some data not already in the database buffers of the SGA, then the 
      associated server process reads the proper data blocks from the 
      datafiles into the SGA. Oracle can be configured to vary the number 
      of user processes for each server process. In a dedicated server 
      configuration, a server process handles requests for a single user 
      process. A shared server configuration lets many user processes 
      share a small number of server processes, minimizing the number 
      of server processes and maximizing the use of available system resources.

29) Which Process writes data in Datafiles?
       Database Writer background process DBWn (20 possible) writes dirty 
       buffers from the buffer cache to the data files. In other words, 
       this process writes modified blocks permanently to disk.

30) What is a Shared Pool?
       The shared pool portion of the SGA contains the library cache, 
       the dictionary cache, buffers for parallel execution messages, 
       and control structures. The total size of the shared pool is 
       determined by the initialization parameter SHARED_POOL_SIZE. 
       The default value of this parameter is 8MB on 32-bit platforms 
       and 64MB on 64-bit platforms. Increasing the value of this parameter 
       increases the amount of memory reserved for the shared pool.

31) What is kept in the Database Buffer Cache?
      The database buffer cache is the portion of the SGA that holds 
      copies of data blocks read from datafiles. All user processes 
      concurrently connected to the instance share access to the 
      database buffer cache.

32) What is difference between PFile and SPFile?
       A PFILE is a static, text file located in $ORACLE_HOME/dbs UNIX
       An SPFILE (Server Parameter File) is a persistent server-side 
       binary file that can only be modified with the  ALTER SYSTEM SET  
       command.

34) Can you change SHARED_POOL_SIZE online?
       YES. That s possible.
       SQL>alter system set shared_pool_size=500M scope=both;

35) You want users to change their passwords every 2 months. How do you enforce this?
    Oracle password security is implemented via Oracle profiles which are assigned to users.
    PASSWORD_LIFE_TIME limits the number of days the same password can be used for authentication.

First, start by creating security  profile  in Oracle database and then alter 
the user to belong to the profile group.
1) creating a profile:
2) Create user and assign user to the all_users profile
3) To  alter profile  parameter, say; change to three months:

36) What is Automatic Management of Segment Space setting?
      Oracle9i New Feature Series: Automatic Segment Space Management
      Automatic Segment Space Management (ASSM) introduced in Oracle9i 
      is an easier way of managing space in a segment using bitmaps.
      It eliminates the DBA from setting the parameters pctused, freelists, 
      and freelist groups.
      ASSM can be specified only with the locally managed tablespaces (LMT).
     Oracle uses bitmaps to manage the free space. Bitmaps allow Oracle 
     to manage free space more automatically.

37) Compare and contrast TRUNCATE and DELETE for a table?
      Both the truncate and delete command have the desired outcome 
      of getting rid of all the rows in a table. The difference between 
      the two is that the truncate command is a DDL operation and just
      moves the high water mark and produces a now rollback. The delete 
      command, on the other hand, is a DML operation, which will produce 
      a rollback and thus take longer to complete.

38) How do you move tables from one tablespace to another tablespace?
      There are several methods to do this;
      1) export the table, drop the table, create the table definition in the new
         tablespace, and then import the data (imp ignore=y).
      2) Create a new table in the new tablespace with the CREATE TABLE 
         statement AS SELECT all from source table
SQL Statement:
CREATE TABLE temp_name TABLESPACE new_tablespace AS SELECT * FROM source_table;
Then drop the original table and rename the temporary table as the original:
DROP TABLE real_table;
RENAME temp_name TO real_table;

39) Define transaction?
      A transaction is a sequence of SQL statements that Oracle Database treats as a single unit.

40) What is the difference between sql&oracle?
       SQL is Stuctured Query Language.Oracle is a Database.SQL is used to write queries against Oracle DB.

41) What are different Oracle database objects?
       TABLES
       VIEWS
       INDEXES
       SYNONYMS
       SEQUENCES
       TABLESPACES

42) What are the dictionary tables used to monitor a database spaces ?
       DBA_FREE_SPACE
       DBA_SEGMENTS
       DBA_DATA_FILES

43) What is a database instance?
       A database instance is a set of memory structure and background processes that 
       access a set of database files. The processes can be shared by all of the users.

44) What is the difference between a view and a synonym?
       Synonym is just a second name of table used for multiple link of database.View 
       can be created with many tables, and with virtual columns and with conditions.
       But synonym can be on view.

45) What command would you use to create a backup control file?
       Alter database backup control file to trace.

46) What is the difference between database and instance?
       Database is a collection of data files that contain the information of 
       interest; whereas, instance is the combination of background processes 
       and memory structure.

47) What are the three types of files that make up an Oracle database?
      The three types of files that make up an Oracle database are :
      Datafiles
      Control files and Redo log files.

48) What are the types of privileges?
      Oracle has two kinds of privileges :
      System Privileges
      Object Privileges

49) What is the difference between system and object privileges?
      This statement when executed will display all the available system 
      privileges such as Create Session, Drop User, Alter Database and so on.

50) What are the different types of memory structure available in Oracle?
       System Global Area(SGA)
       Program Global Area(PGA)

51) What is log switch?
       A log switch is a point when loG WRiter (LGWR)fills one online redo 
       log group and writing to another.At every log switch a checkpoint,occurs.

52) What is Oracle table?
       A table is the basic unit of data storage in an Oracle database.
       The tables of a database hold all of the user accessible data.
       Table data is stored in rows and columns.

53)  What Oracle object is used for read consistency?
        The rollback segments are used for read consistency.

54) What is the control file?
      Control file is a file that contains all the information about the 
      physical structure of the database,such as the number of log files and their location.

55) Which files must be backed up?
      The following files must be backed up :
      Database files
      Control files
       Archived log files

56) What is SQL*Loader?
       SQL*Loader is a tool to load data from file to a database table.

57) What is a synonym?
       A synonym is simply an alias to another object in the database. 
       This object can be a table, view, sequence or program unit.

58) What is archive log file?
       Archive log file stores redo log information persistentiy. A redo 
       log is overwritten with time;therefore,archive log maintains that lost information.
 	
59) How do you control the maximum number of redo log files in a database?
      The maximum number of redo log files can be controlled by the parameter MAXLOGFILES.
 	

60) What is the difference between a privilege and a role?
       A privilege is the authority to perform a certain act or command.
       A role is a collection of privileges and roles that can be assigned to a user.


61) What is the difference between a temporary table space and a permanent table space?
       A temporary tablespace provides temporary storage during the processing of 
       database function, such as sorting; whereas
       A permanent tablespace is used to store permanent database objects, 
       such as tables, partitions, indexes and clusters.

62) Define Database Management System (DBMS) and RDBMS?
      DBMS is a program that defines the rules for data storage and retrieval.
      RDBMS is a special type of DBMS that stores the data in the relational 
      format as described in the relational theory by E.F. Codd.

63) How do you add a datafile to a tablespace?
      You can add a datafile to a tablespace by using the ALTER TABLESPACE 
      ADD DATAFILE SIZE; statement.

64) What view would you use to determine free space in a tablespace?
       The DBA_FREE_SPACE view can be used to determine free space in a tablespace.

65) What is the control file? What kind of information is stored in a control file?
       Control file is a file that contains all the information about the physical 
       structure of the database, such as number of log files and their location.
       Oracle database server uses control file to find its physical component.
Control file stores information about log switches, checkpoints, and modification in disk resources

66) How to check how many database is running from os level?
      ps -ef|grep pmon

67) What is maxbytes?
       The MAXBYTES function counts the number of bytes in the longest line of a 
       multiline text expression. The result returned by MAXBYTES has the same 
       dimensions as the specified expression.

68) How to check size of table?
      select segment_name,segment_type,bytes/1024/1024 MB
      from dba_segments
      where segment_type='TABLE' and segment_name='<yourtablename>';

69) Difference between static listener and dynamic listener?
      1. Static Registration :- A static registration of database to a listener 
      is used when we want to remotely start our database. Static registration 
      is like hardcoding a instance details in listener.ora file. In a static 
      registration an instance is registered with the listener whether its up 
      or not. When a client request comes listener opens a dedicated connection, 
      and server later find out that instance is not up then it gives error 
      message as "Oracle not available". 
      2. Dynamic Registration :- In Dynamic registration , registration is 
      performed by PMON process. Once a Database instance starts, its PMON 
      process registers instance details with associated listener. Dynamic 
      registration does not require any manual configuration in the listener.ora 
      file where as Static configuration does.From Oracle 8i dynamic configuration 
      introduced. 

70) Why do we need SCOPE=BOTH clause?      
       BOTH indicates that the change is made in memory and in the server 
       parameter file. The new setting takes effect immediately and persists 
       after the database is shut down and started up again. If a server parameter 
       file was used to start up the database, then BOTH is the default. If a 
       parameter file was used to start up the database, then MEMORY is the default, 
       as well as the only scope you can specify.                                                                                                                                                                                               

71) What kind of information is stored in UNDO segments?     
      Only before image of data is stored in the UNDO segments. If transaction is 
      rolled back information from UNDO is applied to restore original datafile. 
      UNDO is never multiplexed.  

72)  What are new memory parameters in Oracle 11g?
       MEMORY_TARGET

73) What are the mandatory background processes?
      DBWR LGWR SMON PMON CKPT RECO.

74) What process will get data from datafiles to DB cache?
      Server process

75) What background process will writes data to datafiles?
      DBWR

76) What background process will write undo data?
      DBWR

77) What are physical components of Oracle database?
      Oracle database is comprised of three types of files. One or more 
      datafiles, two or more redo log files, and one or more control files. 
      Password file and parameter file also come under physical components.

78) What are logical components of Oracle database?
       Blocks, Extents, Segments, Tablespaces.

79) What is a datafile?
       Every Oracle database has one or more physical datafiles. Datafiles 
       contain all the database data. The data of logical database structures 
       such as tables and indexes is physically stored in the datafiles 
       allocated for a database.

80) What are the contents of control file?
      Database name, SCN, LSN, datafile locations, redolog locations, 
      archive mode, DB Creation Time, RMAN Backup & Recovery Details, 
      Flashback mode.

81) What is the use of redo log files?
      Online redo logs serve to protect the database in the event of an 
      instance failure. Whenever a transaction is committed, the 
      corresponding redo entries temporarily stored in redo log buffers
      of the system global area are written to an online redo log file 
      by the background process LGWR.

82) What is the use of password file?
       If the DBA wants to start up an Oracle instance there must be 
       a way for Oracle to authenticate this DBA. That is if (s)he is 
       allowed to do so. Obviously, his password can not be stored in 
       the database, because Oracle can not access the database before 
       the instance is started up. Therefore, the authentication of the 
       DBA must happen outside of the database. There are two distinct 
       mechanisms to authenticate the DBA: using the password file or 
       through the operating system.

      The init parameter remote_login_passwordfile specifies if a 
      password file is used to authenticate the DBA or not. If it 
      set either to shared or exclusive a password file will be used.

83)  How to create password file?
       $ orapwd file=orapwSID password=sys_password force=y nosysdba=y

84) How many types of indexes are there?
      Clustered and Non-Clustered
      1.B-Tree index
      2.Bitmap index
      3.Unique index
      4.Function based index

85)  What is bitmap index & when it ll be used?
       Bitmap indexes are preferred in Data warehousing environment.
       Preferred when cardinality is low.

86) What is B-tree index & when it ll be used?
       B-tree indexes are preferred in OLTP environment.
       Preferred when cardinality is high.

87) What is the difference between view and materialized view?
      View is logical, will store only the query, and will always gets latest data.
      Mview is physical, will store the data, and may not get latest data.

88) What is the use of root.sh & oraInstRoot.sh?
      Changes ownership & permissions of oraInventory
      Creating oratab file in the /etc directory
      In RAC, starts the clusterware stack







what happens when issues a ddl statement in oracle

A user runs a DDL statement such as CREATE, DROP, RENAME, or ALTER. 
If the current transaction contains any DML statements, Oracle first 
commits the transaction, and then runs and commits the DDL statement 
as a new, single statement transaction. A user disconnects 
from Oracle. The current transaction is committed.


Is commit required for DDL statements?

DDL is auto commit and you need not to issue commit statement 
as it affects on structure or meta data in the database while 
in DML, it affects on data. That's why, DML require commit 
or rollback to same or revert your changes.


What Happens to the Current Transaction If a DDL Statement Is Executed? 

If a DDL statement is executed, the current transaction will be 
committed and ended. All the database changes made in the current 
transaction will become permanent. ... The subsequent ROLLBACK 
statement has no effects on the closed transaction.


How do I rollback a DDL in Oracle?

The Rollback statement undoes all changes for the current session 
up to the savepoint specified. When you execute a DDL operation, 
there is an implied commit after the DDL. The save point is then 
changed to the position following the DDL operation.


Is commit required after delete in Oracle?

If you want to remove all the rows from a table, the TRUNCATE 
TABLE statement is a lot more efficient than the DELETE statement. 
The TRUNCATE TABLE statement is a DDL command, so it includes an 
implicit COMMIT, so there is no way to issue a ROLLBACK if you decide 
you didn't want to remove the rows.


Is Alter DDL or DML?

DML is Data Manipulation Language which is used to manipulate data 
itself. For example: insert, update, delete are instructions in SQL. 
It stands for Data Definition Language. ... Basic command present in 
DDL are CREATE, DROP, RENAME, ALTER etc.


What is the difference between DDL and DML?

The basic difference between DDL and DML is that DDL (Data Definition 
Language) is used to Specify the database schema database structure. 
On the other hand, DML (Data Manipulation Language) is used to access, 
modify or retrieve the data from the database.


Which statement is used to end a successful transaction?

Explanation: COMMIT WORK marks the end of a transaction.


How commit and rollback works in Oracle?

What is a Transaction?
COMMIT : Make changes done in transaction permanent.
ROLLBACK : Rollbacks the state of database to the last commit point.
SAVEPOINT : Use to specify a point in transaction to which later you can rollback.


What are transaction and its controls?

Transaction Control is an active and connected transformation which allows 
us to commit or rollback transactions during the execution of the mapping. 
Commit and rollback operations are of significant importance as it guarantees 
the availability of data.


Can we rollback DDL commands?

DDL statements do roll back. If the DDL statement hits an error before 
it completes, the operation will be rolled back. But if the DDL statement 
was successful, it will immediately be followed by an implicit COMMIT. 
Since the COMMIT was issued for you, you cannot issue a ROLLBACK to undo 
the DDL statement.


Can we combine multiple DDL statements together?

Create multiple tables in a single transaction in Oracle
As we can see in this tip SQL Server allows us to include 
multiple DDL commands in a single transaction in contrast 
to Oracle. The latter commits transactions when a DDL command 
is issued, so it is not possible to combine DDL statements in 
one transaction.




















4)Oracle architecture?(Total)
A- oracle rdbms consists of an instance and a database.
	.The instance consists of Background processes and memory.
	.The database consists of physical and logical files.
	.The mandatory background procosses are pmon, smon, dbwr, lgwr, ckpt.
	.The memory consists of SGA and PGA.
	.The physical files include the os level files like datafiles(system,sysaux,temp,undo,users, 
	 other datafiles,redologs,Archivelogs,controlfile,spfile/pfile)
	.The logical files include tablespaces.

5)Explain role of SMON?
A- 	1.Upon restarting an instance that crashed, SMON determines whether the database is consistent
   	2.SMON coalesces free extents if you use locally managed tablespaces, which enables you to
     	  assign larger contiguous free areas on disk to your database objects.
   	3.SMON cleans up unnecessary temporary segments.

6)How you get the ticket?
A- i book tickets(movie,bus,train) online.. internet banking(makes life easy)

7)Which error you find in alert log file?
A- The alert log captures major changes and events that occur during the running of the
	 Oracle instance, including log switches, any Oracle-related errors, warnings, and other messages. 
	.In addition, the alert log contains messages regarding internal errors and corruption errors.
	.to investigate background process errors 
	 For example, when the log writer process is unable to write to a log group,
	 or indicating that the archiver process is stuck due to lack of disk space.

8)What is the use of index, why to rebuid, pre-req for index?
A- Oracle indexes provide speedy access to table rows by storing sorted values
 	of specified columns, and using those sorted values to easily look up the associated table rows,
		
	 why to rebuid indexes::
	 ::Index data constantly changes due to the underlying table s DML activity. Indexes often become too large if there are many deletions, because the space used by the deleted values is not reused automatically by the index. You can use the REBUILD command on a periodic basis to reorganize indexes to make them more compact and thus more efficient.

	 Prerequisites to create index::
     	 To create an index in your own schema, at least one of the following conditions must be true:
	 ..The table or cluster to be indexed is in your own schema.
	 ..You have INDEX privilege on the table to be indexed.
	 ..You have CREATE ANY INDEX system privilege.

         To create an index in another schema, all of the following conditions must be true:		
	 ..You have CREATE ANY INDEX system privilege.
	 ..The owner of the other schema has a quota for the tablespaces to contain the index or index partitions, or UNLIMITED TABLESPACE system privilege

9)If ur moving one table from one tbs to another what is pre-req, then whats the status of index?
A- The status becomes Invalid. rebuild the index

10)How to find no of user connected to ur database?

11)Installation and its pre-req, kernel parameter, scripts(orainstROOT.sh,root.sh)?

12)Upgradation 10.2.0.2.0 to 11.2.0.2.0 and pre-req,any other method to upgrade?

13)Manual database creation and pre-req?

14)How you migrate schema?

16)How to import without taking export,network link?
A- When you use network_link parameter during import,
	we are directly connected to the target database using database link(network link)
`	hence no need to take any export. and anyways we cannot specify dumpfile parameter if 
	are using network_link parameter during import.

17)How to clone from server A to server B?

18)How will you check standby is in sync or not, if not what will you do?

19)What is ASM, its use?
A- Automatic Storage Management (ASM) is an integrated, high-performance database file system and disk manager. 
	.ASM is based on the principle that the database should manage storage instead of requiring an administrator to do it.
	.ASM eliminates the need for you to directly manage potentially thousands of Oracle database files.
	USE::
	.ASM groups the disks in your storage system into one or more disk groups.You manage a small set of disk groups and ASM automates the placement of the database files within those disk groups.
	
benefits::
	.Striping ASM spreads data evenly across all disks in a disk group.
	.Mirroring ASM can increase availability by optionally mirroring any file.

	Key Value Propositions::
	MANAGEABILITY- Simple provisioning, Storage Array migration, Self-tuning 
	PERFORMANCE- Distribute load across all available storage, No ASM code in data path
	AVAILABILITY- Automatic mirror rebuild, Automatic bad block correction,Rolling upgrades,online patches, RAC and clusterware support.

	COST SAVINGS- Shared storage pool, No license fees,No support fees.

20)Basic Unix command?
A- cp,mv,grep,find,ls,unzip,tar,mkdir,cd,www.google.com(best command ever)

21)Software cloning?

22)What is role?
A- A role is a set of privileges that you can grant and revoke with a single GRANT or REVOKE command. 
	A role can contain both a set of privileges and other roles as well. Roles make it easy for
	you to assign multiple privileges to a user.

23)How to apply to Opatch?
A- To apply Opatch, db, listener and all services runing from O_H both must be down as opatch will
	 update your current ORACLE_HOME with patches.
	.check database status(select name,open_mode,database_name,created,log_mode,platform_name
	 from v$database;)
	.take a backup of invalid objects if there are any(select owner,count(*) from dba_objects
	 where status='INVALID' group by owner;) 
	.Check Opatch version (opatch -v)
	.Check whether or not opatch utility is pointing to you current ORACLE_HOME(cat /etc/oraInst.loc)
	 if your server has more than 1 ORACLE HOMES then comment all other ORACLE HOMES
	.check free space on $ORACLE_HOME(df -h $ORACLE_HOME)
	.unzip the patch
	.Go the patch directory
	.now apply the patch (opatch napply -skip_subset -skip_duplicate)
	.to apply opatch in RAC instance(opatch napply -skip_subset -skip_duplicate -local -oh)
	 when using -local parameter and -oh $ORACLE_HOME this means this patch session will only apply
	 patch to current ORACLE_HOME only. 

WHAT happens in background during patching::
	1.Opatch takes backup of those files from O_H which it is going to update
	2.It takes this backup in O_H/.patch_storage directory
	3. It then copies files from /etc and /files to O_H
	4.After that it takes backup of Inventory in /files
	5.Relinks all O_H binaries and update invenrtory with patch ID
	6.Finally it displays- patch applied

24) How to check disk space?
Ans : by using df -h command at OS prompt.

25)What is grep?
Ans : The grep program searches a file or files for lines that have a certain pattern. The syntax is:
	$ grep "pattern" file(s)
	The name "grep" derives from the ed (a Unix line editor) command g/re/p, which means "globally search for a regular expression and print all lines containing it."

26)What is explain plan?

27)Types of backup?
Ans : physical backup - , logical backup

28)Difference between cold and hot backup?
Ans : When we take cold backup, db must be down gracefully, while taking backup in hot mode there is no need to shut down the db. We can take hot backup in open state also.

29)How to take hot backup, which files you take in hot backup?
Ans : 	To take hot backup, we must fire :
		alter database begin backup;
	After taking db in begin backup mode, i copy all datafiles and controlfile to backup location. when copy is done we must fire
		alter database end backup;
	select * from v$backup;
	by doing this, db is out of begin backup mode. At last we must switch logfile, by doing this it indicates that hot backup is done. this information is stored in control file.
	
30)What happen to the db when we put db is in begin backup mode?
Ans :  	when we put db in begin backup mode, the header portion of datafile is freezed and DBWn process starts writing dirty blocks into datafiles as well as log buffer. Because of this excessive redo generation happens.

31)How to check tablespace usage?
Ans :	we can check this from dba_tablespace_usage_metrics

32)Database shutdown command?
Ans :	this command brought down the database instance. it have three type of modes to shut down the database instance.
	shutdown normal, shutdown transactional, shutdown abort

33)What is normal shutdown?
Ans :	when sys fires shutdown normal command, it will wait till other users logged out of their session. No new user will connect to the database instance. All transaction will commit.

34)Difference between 10g and 11g?

35)11g features?
Ans :	 Automatic Storage Management (ASM)
	 Automatic Memory Management
	 Automatic Database Diagnostic Monitor (ADDM)
	 Automatic Workload Repository (AWR)
	 Scheduler AutoTask automated maintenance tasks
	 Parameter file management changes and new features
	 Resource Manager
	 Finer-grained dependencies
	 DDL WAIT
	 Add column with defaults

36)How to create recovery catalog?
Ans :	creating recovery catalog means you have to create a new database (probably on other machine). Just do DBCA or 
	you can create manual database.

37)How will you configure RMAN backup with recovery catalog?
Ans :	there are two machines with A and B.... we have database on A... so we create one database on B and create a new
	blank tablespace. Now create a new user and assign that tablespace with unlimited quota to the user. Now assign
	REMOTE_CATALOG_OWNER role. The listener of machine B must be on and the database must be registered with the
	Listener.
	Later, go to machine A and create one tns entry that will connect machine A to B. Now, connect to rman using
	rman target=/ catalog=rmanuser/rmanuser@tns. create catalog from machine A, will create catalog tables in the
	user schema on machine B's database. Now register the database using register database command...

38)Difference between user managed and RMAN?
Ans : 	we can take incremental backup using RMAN, not with user managed backup.
	automatically take backup of controlfile and spfile, user managed backup doesnt take.
	by allocating channels we can increase the speed of backup from RMAN, it is copy tool of OS depends upon IO.
	we can do block level recovery using RMAN, user managed backup only recover datafiles and controlfiles.

39)If tablespace is getting full what will you do,resize or add a datafile and why?

40)What is the pre-req for export,import?
Ans :	first we need to have physical directory on OS. second sys will create logical directory inside the physical directory. next,
	if needed sys will grant read and write privilege on the logical directory to other users.

41)If you want to take export of 3 schemas out of which 5 tables need to be exported .What would be the command of export?
Ans :	expdp sys/sys directory=dir dumpfile =dmp logfile=log schemas=sc1,sc2,sc3 include=tables:"schema.tbnm1,shema.tbnm2,
	schema.tbnm3,schema.tbnm4,schema.tbnm5" 

42)Contains of export log file in detail?(expdat.log)
Ans :	specifies the file where to receive informational and error messages.

43)What is difference between exp and expdp?
Ans :	exp is client base utility while expdp is server based.

44)How will you check db is in archivelog mode?
Ans : 	by checking log_mode from v$database view.

45)Output of archive log list command?
Ans :	The archive log list command output is as follows :
	Database log mode              Archive Mode
	Automatic archival             Enabled
	Archive destination            USE_DB_RECOVERY_FILE_DEST
	Oldest online log sequence     34
	Next log sequence to archive   36
	Current log sequence           36

46)How to check the no of transaction running on ur database?
Ans :	Database Level :
		to check how many transaction in database, we can fire following command...
			-->	select count(*) from v$transaction v, v$session s
				where v.ses_addr = s.saddr;
	Session Level :
		to check how many transaction in users own session, we can fire following command...
			-->	select count(*) from v$transaction v, v$session s, v$mystat m
				where v.ses_addr = s.saddr
				and s.sid=m.sid
				and rownum=1;

47)How to create tablespace?(cmd)
Ans : 	Create [smallfile/bigfile] tablespace tbsname
	datafile 'path of datafile'
	size ___ [autoextent ON/OFF] [next___][maxsize___]
	[extent management local/dictionary]
	[segment space management Auto/Manual]
	[Parmanent/Temporary]
	[logging/nologging]
	[blocksize ____]
	[online/offline];

48)How to create temporary tablespace?(cmd)
Ans : 	Create temporary tablespace tbsname
	tempfile 'path of tempfile';

49)How to create user,unlock,lock?
Ans : 	Creating user : create user username account unlock;
	unlock user : 
	
50)Difference between pfile and spfile?
Ans :	its in notebook

51)What in controlfile and its contain,what is the need of multiplexing of controlfile?
Ans :	its in notebook

52)What is db/network link and pre-req and tns-entry?
Ans :	a link between two servers to get connected to the database for copying tables data.
	to create a dblink user must have CREATE DATABASE LINK system privilege.
	tns-entry file can be located on server as well as on client side. if we configure tnsnames.ora on client side, so
	you can connect your client workstation to the database through the listener running on the server.

53)How many redolog group and member mandatory for database?
Ans :	for each group, there must be a single redolog member per group, but for security purpose each group could have two
	redolog members.

54)What happen when redolog group get full?
Ans :	database goes into hang state... then only sys user can logged in and add members in that groupor resize the size of 
	member. No other users can logged in the database instance.

55)What is undo segment,undo retention?
Ans :	Undo Segment : the undo segment is the space where undo data is stored which is located in the undo tablespace.
	Undo Retention : it is a period that any new transaction will not wrap the undo extents of the other transaction, who
	had already access that undo extent.

56)How to rename tablespace/datafile?
Ans: We can rename tablespace by using following command :
	alter tablespace oldtbsname rename to newtbsname;
We can also rename datafile by :
	alter tablespace tbsname
	rename datafile
	'old path of datafile'
	to
	'new path of datafile';

57)What is undo tablespace?
Ans : 	it is a tablespace, which is useful for read consistancy, possibility of doing transaction rollback and having
	recoverability of transaction. Using undo tablespace we can also do flashback. Undo tablespace is required in each
	database.

58)What is block corruption and how to recover it,How to find out block corruption?
Ans :	Data block corruption can damage internal Oracle control information or application and user data, leading to crippling loss of critical data and services. Block corruptions may affect only a single block or a large portion of the database.
	We can find out block corruption from some solutions such as..
	Oracle Data Guard, Data Recovery Advisory, Oracle Flashback, Oracle Recovery Manager, Automatic Diagnostic Recovery,
	Oracle Secure Backup, The MAA Advisor component of Oracle Enterprise Manager Grid Control, Exadata storage....
	to prevention and detection block corruption is to use Oracle Data Guard  with physical standby databases and
	configure the DB_BLOCK_CHECKING,DB_ULTRA_SAFE, DB_BLOCK_CHECKSUM and DB_LOST_WRITE_PROTECT parameters on Data Guard
	primary and standby databases. ALSO REFER RMAN-Recovering-Block-Corruption
 FROM M:\ORACLE\Oracle_Study_Docs\Word Docs

59)How you come to know that user account is lock and what action you take?
Ans : 	i will get the information of locked users from dba_users where account_status displays current status of users 
	account. on the users request i will unlock that account via :
		alter user username identified by password account unlock;
	
60)How/why to analyse table?
Ans :	to analyse tables we must have recently collected statistics of the tables. we can get it by using a package :
	DBMS_STATUS.gather_table_stats;
	now we can analyse table via....
	analyze table tbname validate structure;
	we can also validate dependent object likes indexes using cascade options...
	analyze table tbname validate structure cascade;
	by default cascade option will don complete validation. we can increase the speed by....
	analyze table tbname validate structure cascade fast;
	we can also analyse table while some DML operation are performing on the table....
	analyze table tbname validate structure cascade online;

61)What will you do if your mount point usage goes beyond threshold value?

62)How will you recover datafile which found missing in database?
Ans :	it depend upon the file that is critical or non-critical, we check that datafile is in backup what we took earlier.
	then we restore the datafile and recover it.
