
interview questions

22. What is split-brain syndrome?
Split brain will arise when two or more instances 
attempt to control a cluster database. In a two-node 
environment, one instance attempts to manage updates 
simultaneously while the other instance attempts to 
manage updates.

23. What are various IPs used in RAC? Or How many 
IPs do we need in RAC?
Public IP, Private IP, Virtual IP, SCAN IP

24. What is the use of virtual IP (VIP)?
When a node fails, the VIP associated with it is 
automatically failed over to some other node and 
the new node re-arps the world indicating a new 
MAC address for the IP. Subsequent packets sent 
to the VIP go to the new node, which will send 
error RST packets back to the clients. This 
results in the clients getting errors immediately.

Without using VIPs or FAN, clients connected to a 
node that died will often wait for a TCP timeout 
period (which can be up to 10 min) before getting 
an error. As a result, you dont really have a 
good HA solution without using VIPs.

25. What is the use of SCAN IP (SCAN name) and 
will it provide load balancing?
Single Client Access Name (SCAN) was introduced 
in Oracle Real Application Clusters (RAC) 11g Release 2, 
feature that provides a single name for clients to 
access an Oracle Database running in a cluster. 
The benefit is clients using SCAN do not need to 
change if you add or remove nodes in the cluster.

26. How many SCAN listeners will be running?
Three SCAN listeners only, irrespective of the 
number of nodes in the cluster.

27. What is FAN?
Applications can use Fast Application Notification (FAN) 
to enable rapid failure detection, balancing of connection 
pools after failures, and re-balancing of connection pools 
when failed components are repaired. The FAN process uses 
system events that Oracle publishes when cluster servers 
become unreachable or if network interfaces fail.

28. What is FCF?
Fast Connection Failover (FCF) provides high availability 
to FAN integrated clients, such as clients that use JDBC, 
OCI, or ODP.NET. If you configure the client to use fast 
connection failover, then the client automatically subscribes 
to FAN events and can react to database UP and DOWN events. 
In response, Oracle gives the client a connection to an 
active instance that provides the requested database service.

29. What is TAF and TAF policies?
Transparent Application Failover (TAF) - A runtime failover 
for high availability environments, such as Real Application 
Clusters, TAF refers to the failover and re-establishment 
of application-to-service connections. It enables client 
applications to automatically reconnect to the database 
if the connection fails, and optionally resume a SELECT 
statement that was in progress. This reconnect happens 
automatically from within the Oracle Call Interface 
(OCI) library.

30. How will you upgrade the RAC database?

31. What are rolling patches and how to apply them?
Answer:

32. How to add/remove a node?
Answer:

33. What are nodeapps?
Answer:
VIP, listener, ONS, GSD

34. What is gsd (Global Service Daemon)?
Answer:

35. How to do load balancing in RAC?
Answer:

36. What are the uses of services? How to find 
out the services in the cluster?
Applications should use the services to connect 
to the Oracle database. Services define rules 
and characteristics (unique name, workload balancing, 
failover options, and high availability) to control 
how users and applications connect to database instances.

37. How to find out the nodes in the cluster (or) 
how to find out the master node? 
To find out which is the master node, use any one of the below.
i) # olsnodes  -- Which ever displayed first, is the master node of the cluster.
ii) select MASTER_NODE from v$ges_resource;
iii) check ocssd.log file and search for "master node number".
iv) oclumon manage -get master        (From Oracle RAC 12c)
v) ocrconfig -manualbackup

38. How to know the public IPs, private IPs, VIPs in RAC?
# olsnodes -n -p -i
node1-pub       1       node1-prv       node1-vip
node2-pub       2       node2-prv       node2-vip

39. What utility is used to start DB/instance?
srvctl start database –d database_name
srvctl start instance –d database_name –i instance_name

40. How can you shutdown a single instance?
Change cluster_database=false
srvctl stop instance –d database_name –i instance_name

